---
title: Stop giving so much of a fuck.
author: Aneesh R. Bhat
date: 2023-05-18T16:54:15.936Z
thumbnail: /images/pablo-heimplatz-eavs-4kngrk-unsplash.jpg
---
## An attempt at copywriting

Do you feel like you care about random bullshit too much? Do you take others’ opinions too seriously? Do you forget that we live on a floating space rock that goes around a ball of burning gas which is itself floating through a vast expanse of nothingness? Do you also forget that you are going to die one day?

If your answer to all of these was yes, then I’ve got just the right thing for you. It’s called *not giving so much of a fuck* and it has potential to change your life.

Users who have tried it report feeling like a heavy load being lifted from their back. They also suffer reduced amounts of cognitive dissonance and report increased levels of overall happiness. *Not giving so much of a fuck* has allowed them to get after what they really want without feeling guilty about it. 

*Not giving so much of a fuck* helps you find your personal style, do the things you actually like, make better decisions in life, helps you date the people who are compatible with you, makes your friendships better, and makes you a much cooler person in general (But that won’t even matter, because who gives a fuck about being cool). As an added bonus, you also get free self esteem.

*Not giving so much of a fuck* helps you recognize that people are confused chumps like you who, for the most part, don’t know what they’re talking about. You’ll learn to give people the place that they deserve and not obsess about trying to prove something to someone or win someone’s approval.

You’ll stop being scared of sticking out. *Not giving so much of a fuck* has proven to be an excellent remedy for being a super-conformist. 

*Not giving so much of a fuck* is extremely easy to use. Although it takes a bit of determination and a firm will to start, users can start as easily as deciding not to give so much of a fuck. 

Try *not giving so much of a fuck* today. 

We’ve also got a special offer for you, for a limited time all humans can try not giving so much of a fuck for zero cost.. 

This offer ends the day you die. Hurry, before it’s too late.