---
title: Chaos to Order, The function of fiction and other ramblings to finish my
  daily writing quota
author: Aneesh R. Bhat
date: 2023-05-13T23:40:00.000Z
thumbnail: /images/chaos.jpg
---
I was journaling this morning and came up with something that I instantly knew was going into my notes.

> I have only my experience of reality to account for. A writer’s job is to bridge the gap between the experiencer and the experienced. It brings the reader close to a whole domain of reality hitherto restricted to them, due to the fact that your experience of reality resides solely within your mind.

It's often said that reality is stranger than fiction. That's true. Reality is not bound by the limitations of human imagination, out of which fiction is born. There might as well be some kind of celestial entity, some kind of alien race, some piece of technology in some distant corner of the universe, that the most ingenuitive sci-fi writers can't come up with. Because they, even in the mastery of their craft, are bound by the same limits that you and I are. The limit of finite experience. The farthest things we can ever know about are within the observable universe, and the deepest we can go into the stuff that makes up matter is at the level of the Quarks and Leptons. Anything  we can know, and as a result imagine about (even in ways that can never be real) are bound by these limitations. But reality is not. Sure, the laws of physics bind reality, but do we know all the laws that govern the universe? No. So there must be something in reality that is yet to seem stranger to us than fiction. 
But fiction plays an important function. It brings us closer to reality, in the sense that it allows us to fathom what possibilities reality might allow to become real. Many inventions today were thought of by veterans of sci-fi years before they were even deemed a possibility. Hoverboards, tablets, digital billboards, and what seems like the big daddy of all technology today,  Artificial Intelligence.

We have to be able to imagine something for us to even begin working to make it real. Fiction does that for us. That's why I love sci-fi. It's us coming to terms with our future reality so that when it does finally arrive, we might not be as weirded out by it, or frightened of it as we might be otherwise (Because as you know, humans tend to fear what they don't understand). What happens in the hearts of black holes? What happens to us when we sleep. What even is consciousness? These things might have weird answers, but because we would have already dwelled into their possible weirdness through fiction, it will be a tad bit easier for us to digest them.

I have another question. Just as the painter has her canvas and the sculptor has his block of stone, what is that for the writer? What is the writer's canvas? You might say it's the blank page, or the blank document. But the writer’s canvas is really the first draft.

It’s said that the constraints are the canvas. But the blank page is a domain of infinite possibility. Anything can happen within that blank sheet of paper. You might say that the writer is limited by how much she can write on the page. But  unlike the dimensions of the canvas or a block of stone, the length of the page  isn't really a limitation for the writer. A written work can span tens of thousands of pages or multiple volumes. The vocabulary of a language is also not a limitation, because writers can create their own words, just like how Douglas Adams created words like flollop and vollue to describe the activities of talking mattresses. Language itself isn't a limitation, because like J.R.R Tolkien, writers can create their own languages too. And readers will gobble that shit up if the quality of writing is good enough and even go as far as learning the fictional language.

There are only two real limitations posed to a writer. One, the number of characters/alphabets in any particular language she's writing in, along with the numerals, accented characters, or any other quirks of that system. These are finite, but when they are strung together to form words and subsequently sentences, paragraphs and entire works, the possibilities are endless. Sure, maybe certain letters can only work with certain other letters to form words and there are certain semantic and syntactic rules to a language, but the possibilities are still not far from endless. But a writer can't make up new characters and associated sounds unless everyone understands them and agrees to use them.  

The second limitation is the medium of the written word itself. There's a finite number of ways you can describe a person shooting another person in written form. That's the limitation that this medium provides a writer with. But the definition of who a writer is blurry today. A screenwriter is as much a writer as a writer for a video game who is as much a writer as a mangaka. They all use the features and limitations of their chosen medium to tell their story. But the medium nonetheless, has limitations. 

But despite these, when the writer sits in front of the blank page or document, there's still a near-infinite amount of things that can end up being written on that page. And we know that infinite anything is bad. If you have an infinite amount of money, for example,  you'll crash the fucking economy, of course. But the personal value you attach to anything money could buy goes down drastically for you. Infinity is a quick path to nihilism.

What the writer literally does is bring order from the seeming chaos of the blank page and creates something tangible, rule-bound and meaningful. Then the real process of writing begins. Then you have something to work with. The rules and the boundaries of whatever it is that is written are defined. They can be stretched, restricted further, or even broken. But at least they're not non-existent. 

The first draft is akin to a slab of stone. The writer chisels away the excess, defines what is undefined, and in some cases even adds more meat where it’s required. She tames infinity and then makes it look pretty. In doing that, the writer moves from chaos to order, both in her mind and on the page and brings us, as a civilization, closer to reality.