---
title: 30DWC 02
author: Aneesh R. Bhat
date: 2023-05-14T23:10:00.000Z
thumbnail: /images/abba.jpeg
---

## What do we owe our parents?

Nothing. Atleast, nothing by default.

Why are we born on this planet? It's not because we wanted it. We were too non-existent to want anything. We were born because two people decided that they wanted us to be born. And they didn't have any noble reason to do so either. They were either fulfilling their biological imperative or societal expectations, or they were having relationship troubles and thought you would fix that, or they were just bored and wanted something to engage them for twenty-odd years. We have no say in any of that, but we nonetheless are thrust into existence and here we are.

That being said, we can make the case that giving birth to a human being is a purely personal choice that people make. It’s a decision and with that, come certain responsibilities. One has to feed their child and give them an education and keep them from dying and all in all, ensure that the child grows to become a functioning adult.

For many, raising a child can be immensely fulfilling. We have heard stories of how people's lives immediately changed when they held their child for the first time. I think that’s a wonderful phenomenon and I agree that parenting is a lot of hard work and we ought to respect good parents when we see them.

But what I think a lot of people forget is that children are not investment opportunities. Parents, Indian ones especially and I’m sure all around the world, expect their children to act as if they owe them something. To choose the career they want them to, to marry the person they want them to and to take care of them in their old age. 

However, I don't believe that children, simply by virtue of being their parents' children, automatically owe them anything. Sure, you can *choose* to owe them something. But ‘choose’ is the keyword here. It’s a choice. Just like the choice to bring you into existence was your parents' choice, the decision to follow their advice and do what they tell you should be a choice. Furthermore whatever they did for you after you were born were not 'sacrifices'. They were duties that they agreed to take on the moment they decided to have you. Where is the sacrifice in having to do exactly what you wanted to? How many children make actual sacrifices just to appease their parents because the idea that they owe their parents something has been drilled into them since childhood?

And I'm not saying that we must not be empathetic to our parents' struggles and not be grateful to them. If you think they deserve that, then by all means be grateful. But we should also not be overly emotional when our parents come into question. We must remove this idea that we somehow owe our parents something just because we are their children.

How many people choose a career path they don't want simply because they feel obligated to please their parents? How many people end up marrying the wrong person just because their parents left them with no other option. How many adults still live under the emotional tyranny of their parents, with their vision shrouded by the belief that they owe their parents to not disobey them? Maybe we should let go of that idea and start seeing our parents as fallible human beings who can be just as wrong as you can and that although you love them, you don't, in an existential sense, owe them anything.
