---
title: "I Do Not Fear Death: A Rambling"
author: Aneesh R. Bhat
date: 2023-05-17T17:42:17.500Z
thumbnail: /images/ahmed-adly-1ptm6b85sdw-unsplash.jpg
---
Sure, if you put a gun to my head, I’d probably be scared. But I don’t fear the concept of death: An eternity’s worth of nothingness. It actually seems quite favorable, to be honest.

I’ve not read Camus, but I do know that one of his most famous lines are about about [suicide being the only serious philosophical problem](https://bigthink.com/personal-growth/the-meaning-of-life-albert-camus-on-faith-suicide-and-absurdity/). ‘Why live?’ seems to be what he’s asking. I find myself in total agreement with him.

Some months ago, I came up with a poem that although not very good poetically, summarizes my thoughts nicely:

> Being alive is brilliant,
>
> But death wouldn’t be so bad either.
>
> Teetering on the edge of is and not,
>
> My fragile self wishes for the next moment.
>
> Don’t leave me hanging
>
> In that intolerable eternity
>
> You call a single second.
>
> It’s too hard,
>
> The abyss too deep
>
> For me to climb out of.
>
> Let my share of being run dry and
>
> Let me stop being.
>
> But, while that happens:
>
> While I die a little every moment,
>
> And until the moment I’ve finished dying,
>
> Let me be happy,
>
> Let me love,
> And let me be.

These days I’ve been doing a lot of new things. I built a blog and I started writing again. I’ve begun exercising and meditating and reading a lot. And I have a lot of things that I have yet to do. But I can confidently say that I can die tomorrow and I won’t have any regrets (Confidence of a guy who’s sitting comfortably in his room and has never had any kind of threat to his life, mind you). That might be too existential, or maybe I’m depressed or something else, but it feels right to me. That’s why these days I’ve been focusing on things that give me joy. The possibility of death looms over all of us at every moment of our lives. As David Goggins, in his [epic birthday message](https://www.reddit.com/r/davidgoggins/comments/paxcjn/david_goggins_birthday_message_for_joe_from_joe/) to Joe Rogan, said: “When taking that first breath (on the day you were born), it made you eligible to die.”

I think the way to live life in light of this fact is to minimize the possibility of regret. In the twenty four hours you get in a day, assuming you survive all of them, live the way YOU want to live. And of course you can introspect on whether the way you want to live is the best way to live, but that has to be a personal journey. Do not be bogged down by what others tell you. This also pertains to my previous post ‘[Do Not Sell Your Soul](https://aneeshrbhat.netlify.app/post/1684300680)’.

I’m generally indifferent to a lot of things. I have a few people and things I care about. I can count on my fingers the things I want from my life and even if I don’t get them, that’s okay. This might be something that requires more elaboration and a deeper understanding on my part, and I’ll probably explore it in a future essay. But for now, that’s all I have to say.